.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH "TS_CALIBRATE" "1" "" "" "tslib"
.SH "NAME"
ts_calibrate \- A test program to calibrate a touch screen used by tslib\&.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ts_calibrate

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBts_calibrate\fR is used to manually configure tslib's \fBlinear\fR filter plugin. It draws crosshairs to the framebuffer to be touched by the user and records expected vs. actual touch contact positions needed to apply the filter and provide a desired touch user experience. It uses the \fBTSLIB_CALIBFILE\fR environment variable to store it's values.
.sp
.sp
\fB\-r, \-\-rotate [value]\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Rotate the screen. value is 0 for 0 degree, 1 for 90 degrees (CW), 2 for 180 degrees (upside down) and 3 for 270 degrees (CCW).
.RE
.PP

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
see ts.conf (5)
.RE
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ts\&.conf (5),
ts_test (1),
ts_uinput (1)
