.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH TS_CONF_GET 3  "" "" "tslib"
.SH NAME
ts_conf_get \- get a pointer to struct ts_module_conf holding data from the TSLIB_CONFFILE file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <tslib.h>
.sp
.BI "struct ts_module_conf *ts_conf_get(struct tsdev *ts);"
.sp
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ts_conf_get ()
This function returns a pointer to a struct ts_module_conf that is part
of a list of modules listed in the TSLIB_CONFFILE configuration file. ts_conf_get()
actually reads TSLIB_CONFFILE. One struct represents one line in the file.
They get allocated for the user here:

.nf
struct ts_module_conf {
	char *name;
	char *params;
	int raw;
	int nr;

	struct ts_module_conf *next;
	struct ts_module_conf *prev;
};
.fi

.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns a pointer to a struct ts_module_conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ts_conf_set (3),
.BR ts.conf (5)
