.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH "TS_PRINT_MT" "1" "" "" "tslib"
.SH "NAME"
ts_print_mt \- A very basic multitouch test routine for tslib\&.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ts_print_mt [OPTION]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
ts_print_mt simply reads tslib multitouch input samples and prints them to the console.
.sp
.sp
\fB\-i, \-\-idev\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Explicitly choose the original input event device for tslib to use. Default: the environment variable \fBTSLIB_TSDEVICE\fR's value.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-r, \-\-raw\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Don't use the filters. This uses ts_read_raw_mt() instead of ts_read_mt(). This replaces the ts_print_raw_mt program.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-n, \-\-non\-blocking\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Opens the input device in non-blocking mode and indefinitely prints the error codes while no samples are received.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-s, \-\-samples\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Number of samples tslib should read before returning.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-j, \-\-slots\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Override the number of concurrent touch contacts to allocate.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Print usage help and exit.
.RE
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ts.conf (5),
ts_test (1),
ts_test_mt (1),
ts_calibrate (1)
