.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH "TS_TEST_MT" "1" "" "" "tslib"
.SH "NAME"
ts_test_mt \- A basic multitouch test program for tslib.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBts_test_mt\fR [OPTION]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.BR ts_test_mt
is used to test
.BR tslib
using
.BR ts_read_mt()
, see ts_read_mt (3). It can be used for single and multi touch devices and lets you test the input behaviour with tslib's filters applied. Two modes are offered by buttons on the display:
.sp
In
.BR Drag
mode, one crosshair for each concurrently made touch contact is drawn to the framebuffer display.
.sp
In
.BR Draw
mode, lines are drawed for each touch contact.

.sp
.sp
\fB\-r, \-\-rotate [value]\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Rotate the screen. value is 0 for 0 degree, 1 for 90 degrees (CW), 2 for 180 degrees (upside down) and 3 for 270 degrees (CCW).
.RE

.sp
.sp
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Print the input samples' values to the console.
.RE

.sp
.sp
\fB\-j, \-\-slots\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Override the number of concurrent touch contacts to allocate.
.RE

.sp
\fB\-i, \-\-idev\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Explicitly choose the original input event device for tslib to use. Default: the environment variable \fBTSLIB_TSDEVICE\fR's value.
.RE

.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ts.conf (5),
ts_calibrate (1),
ts_uinput (1),
ts_test (1)
