.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH "TS_TEST" "1" "" "" "tslib"
.SH "NAME"
ts_test \- A basic test routine for tslib\&.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ts_test
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
ts_test is used to manually test \fBtslib\fR using ts_read(). It draws a crosshair and mode buttons to the framebuffer and lets you test the behaviour of input samples with your configured filters applied, see ts.conf (5). Since it uses ts_read(), it supports single touch only.
.sp
.sp
\fB\-r, \-\-rotate [value]\fR
.sp
.RS 4
Rotate the screen. value is 0 for 0 degree, 1 for 90 degrees (CW), 2 for 180 degrees (upside down) and 3 for 270 degrees (CCW).
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
ts.conf (5),
ts_test_mt (1),
ts_calibrate (1)
